---
title: January 2021 Newsletter
author: DuFeu
type: page
date: 2021-01-01T12:00:00+00:00
url: /newsletter/2021/january
description: I've got links discussing the differences between message queues and message busses, how to fetch data in parallel in JavaScript and the host of this site.
---

I've decided to start posting my newsletter up onto the site. Now you can see what you'd be getting in your inbox without having to provide an email address, but I do still hope you'll subscribe. As a small incentive, subscribers get them a month before the site.

This month I've got a link discussing the differences between message queues and message busses, how to fetch data in parallel in JavaScript and a link to where this site is hosted.

As with all the links I put in my newsletter, I've found them useful in the previous month, so hopefully you will too. As always, if you think something is wrong, please let me know.

## Architecture - Messaging System Decisions

I was recently asked what the difference between a Bus and Queue was and why you would use one over the other. Half way through muttering things like FIFO and send vs publish, I realised my knowledge was ok, but not at the level of being able to teach someone else.

After a bit of reading around, I think [Steve Smith, aka Ardalis nails it with Bus or Queue](https://ardalis.com/bus-or-queue/). What I particularly like is the link to stack overflow, to provide even more information.

## Parallel Fetching in JavaScript

I was building a tool where the values in a couple dropdowns depended on a previous value. To get the fast part of "make it work, make it right, make it fast" I researched a way of making parallel calls. This [JavaScript Quick Tip — Avoid Serial Request Waterfalls](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/javascript-quick-tip-avoid-serial-request-waterfalls-d03c4021d5fa) sorted me out.

[Promise.All](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/all) is nice and similar to [Task.WhenAll](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.threading.tasks.task.whenall?view=net-5.0), so I went for that one.

## Awesome Gatsby Hosting

I can't say enough great things about the host of this site [Vercel](https://vercel.com/). If you're an old timer like me and remember zipping up a folder and FTP-ing files, or even right-click Deploy, I recommend you checkout how painless it is with Vercel. 

I've recently started learning Unity and considered setting up https://games.mattdufeu.co.uk as a seperate repository to host them. It's not there yet, but I went from nothing to live with a proof of concept (basic Next.js site and Unity game on a sub-domain) in under an hour.

And what's more incredible is the fact it's free until you start using a lot of bandwidth in a month. Currently 100GB, yes with a G!

## Like what you see?

If you think a short email, once a month, containing just a few high quality links with some commentary would be useful, please sign up below.